Project Ideas
Project 1: The Sleeping Teaching Assistant:
A university computer science department has a teaching assistant ( TA ) who helps undergraduate students
with their programming assignments during regular office hours. The TA ’s office is rather small and has room
for only one desk with a chair and computer. There are three chairs in the hallway outside the office where
students can sit and wait if the TA is currently helping another student. When there are no students who
need help during office hours, the TA sits at the desk and takes a nap. If a student arrives during office hours
and finds the TA sleeping, the student must awaken the TA to ask for help. If a student arrives and finds the
TA currently helping another student, the student sits on one of the chairs in the hallway and waits. If no
chairs are available, the student will come back at a later time.
Using JAVA threads, mutex locks, and semaphores, implement a solution that coordinates the activities of
the TA and the students. The number of disks in the TA’s room (aka no. of TAs), number of chair for waiting
students and number of students that have questions should be provided as an input to your program.
Project 2: Word statistics:
Write a program that reads all text files form a specific directory and return word statistics (number of words
per file/directory, longest word, shortest word, number of “is”, “are” and “you”).
- The program should have a simple GUI
- The input of the program is a directory
o It should then search for all text files that reside in that directory
o There should be an option to check for text files in subdirectories
- While the program is processing text files, it should display them (file names) and the up-to-date
statistics. (Statistics should be updated in run time)
Project 3: Rat in a Maze Problem:
A Maze is given as 𝑁 × 𝑁 binary matrix of blocks where source block is the upper left most block i.e., maze
[0][0] and destination block is lower rightmost block i.e., maze[N-1][N-1]. A rat starts from source
and must reach the destination. The rat can move only in two directions: forward and down. In the maze
matrix, 0 means the block is a dead end and 1 means the block can be used in the path from source to
destination. Use Multi-threading to solve this problem.
You should design a multithreaded JAVA program with the following features:
- You should enter the dimensions of the maze, then a grid is generated.
- You should use the grid to specify dead blocks on runtime